doc/md: add gorm docs (#3020)
ariga/atlas: doc/md/guides/orms/gorm/gorm.mdx

---
title: GORM Guides
slug: /guides/orms/gorm/intro
---

import { DocCard } from "../../../home/components/doc-card";
import { GuideCard } from "../../../home/components/guide-card";
import { Layout } from "../../../home/components/layout";
import { ORMQuickStart } from "../../../home/components/quick-start";

<Layout>

> [GORM](https://gorm.io/index.html), a popular ORM in the Go community, simplifies database schema management with its AutoMigrate feature,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GORM](https://gorm.io/index.html), a popular ORM in the Go community, provides basic schema migration capabilities using its `AutoMigrate` feature,
```

> suitable for many development scenarios. For more advanced schema control, Atlas automates the process by comparing and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
suitable mostly for local development and small projects. For more advanced schema control, Atlas automates the process by comparing and
```

managing database states, integrating seamlessly with GORM projects.

<ORMQuickStart
    title="Quick Start"
    description="Get started with Atlas and GORM."
    url="/guides/orms/gorm"
/>

### Loading GORM Into Atlas

<span>
To use Atlas with GORM, there are two modes in which the Atlas GORM Provider can load your schema.
Choose the one that suits your project setup.
</span>

<div className="grid gap-6 grid-cols-1 lg:grid-cols-2 auto-cols-fr lg:auto-rows-fr mb-12 mt-6">
    <DocCard
        name="Standalone Mode"

>         description="All of your GORM models exist in a single package, and either embed gorm.Model or contain gorm struct tags."

Reviewer: is possible to have `gorm.Model` look like code (monospace) 

```suggestion
        description="The common case. Use it if all of your GORM models exist in a single package and either embed gorm.Model or contain gorm struct tags."
```

        icon=""
        url="/guides/orms/gorm/standalone"
    />
    <DocCard
        name="Go Program Mode"

>         description="Your GORM models are spread across multiple packages, or do not embed gorm.Model or contain gorm struct tags."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        description="Use in more advanced scenarios where you need more control specifying which structs to consider as models."
```
